.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-PEEK\-REMOTE" "1" "04/22/2007" "Git 1.5.1.2.241.gfdd3e" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-peek\-remote \- List the references in a remote repository
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-peek\-remote\fR [\-\-upload\-pack=<git\-upload\-pack>] [<host>:]<directory>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Lists the references the remote repository has, and optionally stores them in the local repository under the same name.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-upload\-pack=<git\-upload\-pack>
Use this to specify the path to \fIgit\-upload\-pack\fR on the remote side, if it is not found on your $PATH. Some installations of sshd ignores the user's environment setup scripts for login shells (e.g. .bash_profile) and your privately installed git may not be found on the system default $PATH. Another workaround suggested is to set up your $PATH in ".bashrc", but this flag is for people who do not want to pay the overhead for non\-interactive shells, but prefer having a lean .bashrc file (they set most of the things up in .bash_profile).
.TP
\-\-exec=<git\-upload\-pack>
Same \-\-upload\-pack=<git\-upload\-pack>.
.TP
<host>
A remote host that houses the repository. When this part is specified, \fIgit\-upload\-pack\fR is invoked via ssh.
.TP
<directory>
The repository to sync from.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

