.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-HTTP\-FETCH" "1" "10/03/2006" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-http\-fetch \- downloads a remote git repository via HTTP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-http\-fetch\fR [\-c] [\-t] [\-a] [\-d] [\-v] [\-w filename] [\-\-recover] [\-\-stdin] <commit> <url>
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Downloads a remote git repository via HTTP.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
commit\-id
Either the hash or the filename under [URL]/refs/ to pull.
.TP
\-c
Get the commit objects.
.TP
\-t
Get trees associated with the commit objects.
.TP
\-a
Get all the objects.
.TP
\-v
Report what is downloaded.
.TP
\-w <filename>
Writes the commit\-id into the filename under $GIT_DIR/refs/<filename> on the local end after the transfer is complete.
.TP
\-\-stdin
Instead of a commit id on the commandline (which is not expected in this case),
\fIgit\-http\-fetch\fR
expects lines on stdin in the format
.sp
.nf
<commit\-id>['\\t'<filename\-as\-in\-\-w>]
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
.sp
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.sp
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite
.sp
