.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-VAR" "1" "10/03/2006" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-var \- Print the git users identity
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-var\fR [ \-l | <variable> ]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Prints a git logical variable.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-l
Cause the logical variables to be listed. In addition, all the variables of the git configuration file .git/config are listed as well. (However, the configuration variables listing functionality is deprecated in favor of
git\-repo\-config \-l.)
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.sp
.nf
$ git\-var GIT_AUTHOR_IDENT
Eric W. Biederman <ebiederm@lnxi.com> 1121223278 \-0600
.fi
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
GIT_AUTHOR_IDENT
The author of a piece of code.
.TP
GIT_COMMITTER_IDENT
The person who put a piece of code into git.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP
You don't exist. Go away!
The passwd(5) gecos field couldn't be read
.TP
Your parents must have hated you!
The password(5) gecos field is longer than a giant static buffer.
.TP
Your sysadmin must hate you!
The password(5) name field is longer than a giant static buffer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgit\-commit\-tree\fR(1) \fBgit\-tag\fR(1) \fBgit\-repo\-config\fR(1)
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
.sp
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Eric Biederman and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.sp
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite
.sp
