.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-APPLYPATCH" "1" "04/22/2007" "Git 1.5.1.2.241.gfdd3e" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-applypatch \- Apply one patch extracted from an e\-mail
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-applypatch\fR <msg> <patch> <info> [<signoff>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This is usually not what an end user wants to run directly. See \fBgit\-am\fR(1) instead.

Takes three files <msg>, <patch>, and <info> prepared from an e\-mail message by \fIgit\-mailinfo\fR, and creates a commit. It is usually not necessary to use this command directly.

This command can run applypatch\-msg, pre\-applypatch, and post\-applypatch hooks. See [1]\&\fIhooks\fR for more information.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
<msg>
Commit log message (sans the first line, which comes from e\-mail Subject stored in <info>).
.TP
<patch>
The patch to apply.
.TP
<info>
Author and subject information extracted from e\-mail, used on "author" line and as the first line of the commit log message.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ hooks
\%hooks.html
