.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-SH\-SETUP" "1" "06/30/2008" "Git 1.5.6.1.108.g660379" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-sh\-setup \- Common git shell script setup code
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fI. "$(git \-\-exec\-path)/git\-sh\-setup"\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This is not a command the end user would want to run. Ever. This documentation is meant for people who are studying the Porcelain\-ish scripts and/or are writing new ones.

The git\-sh\-setup scriptlet is designed to be sourced (using .) by other shell scripts to set up some variables pointing at the normal git directories and a few helper shell functions.

Before sourcing it, your script should set up a few variables; USAGE (and LONG_USAGE, if any) is used to define message given by usage() shell function. SUBDIRECTORY_OK can be set if the script can run from a subdirectory of the working tree (some commands do not).

The scriptlet sets GIT_DIR and GIT_OBJECT_DIRECTORY shell variables, but does \fBnot\fR export them to the environment.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
die
exit after emitting the supplied error message to the standard error stream.
.TP
usage
die with the usage message.
.TP
set_reflog_action
set the message that will be recorded to describe the end\-user action in the reflog, when the script updates a ref.
.TP
git_editor
runs an editor of user's choice (GIT_EDITOR, core.editor, VISUAL or EDITOR) on a given file, but error out if no editor is specified and the terminal is dumb.
.TP
is_bare_repository
outputs true or false to the standard output stream to indicate if the repository is a bare repository (i.e. without an associated working tree).
.TP
cd_to_toplevel
runs chdir to the toplevel of the working tree.
.TP
require_work_tree
checks if the repository is a bare repository, and dies if so. Used by scripts that require working tree (e.g. checkout).
.TP
get_author_ident_from_commit
outputs code for use with eval to set the GIT_AUTHOR_NAME, GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL and GIT_AUTHOR_DATE variables for a given commit.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(1) suite

