.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-QUILTIMPORT" "1" "10/03/2006" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-quiltimport \- Applies a quilt patchset onto the current branch
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIgit\-quiltimport\fR [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-author <author>] [\-\-patches <dir>]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Applies a quilt patchset onto the current git branch, preserving the patch boundaries, patch order, and patch descriptions present in the quilt patchset.
.sp
For each patch the code attempts to extract the author from the patch description. If that fails it falls back to the author specified with \-\-author. If the \-\-author flag was not given the patch description is displayed and the user is asked to interactively enter the author of the patch.
.sp
If a subject is not found in the patch description the patch name is preserved as the 1 line subject in the git description.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-dry\-run
Walk through the patches in the series and warn if we cannot find all of the necessary information to commit a patch. At the time of this writing only missing author information is warned about.
.TP
\-\-author Author Name <Author Email>
The author name and email address to use when no author information can be found in the patch description.
.TP
\-\-patches <dir>
The directory to find the quilt patches and the quilt series file.
.sp
.nf
The default for the patch directory is patches
or the value of the $QUILT_PATCHES environment
variable.
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Eric Biederman <ebiederm@lnxi.com>
.sp
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Eric Biederman <ebiederm@lnxi.com>
.sp
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite
.sp
