.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-SHORTLOG" "1" "06/06/2008" "Git 1.5.6.rc1.21.g03300" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-shortlog \- Summarize 'git log' output
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
git\-log \-\-pretty=short | \fIgit\-shortlog\fR [\-h] [\-n] [\-s] [\-e] [\-w]
git\-shortlog [\-n|\-\-numbered] [\-s|\-\-summary] [\-e|\-\-email] [\-w[<width>[,<indent1>[,<indent2>]]]] [<committish>\&...]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Summarizes \fIgit log\fR output in a format suitable for inclusion in release announcements. Each commit will be grouped by author and the first line of the commit message will be shown.

Additionally, "[PATCH]" will be stripped from the commit description.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
Print a short usage message and exit.
.TP
\-n, \-\-numbered
Sort output according to the number of commits per author instead of author alphabetic order.
.TP
\-s, \-\-summary
Suppress commit description and provide a commit count summary only.
.TP
\-e, \-\-email
Show the email address of each author.
.TP
\-w[<width>[,<indent1>[,<indent2>]]]
Linewrap the output by wrapping each line at width. The first line of each entry is indented by indent1 spaces, and the second and subsequent lines are indented by indent2 spaces. width, indent1, and indent2 default to 76, 6 and 9 respectively.
.SH "FILES"
If the file .mailmap exists, it will be used for mapping author email addresses to a real author name. One mapping per line, first the author name followed by the email address enclosed by \fI<\fR and \fI>\fR. Use hash \fI#\fR for comments. Example:
.sp
.nf
.ft C
# Keep alphabetized
Adam Morrow <adam@localhost.localdomain>
Eve Jones <eve@laptop.(none)>
.ft

.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(1) suite

