.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-GUI" "1" "06/01/2008" "Git 1.5.6.rc0.52.g58124" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-gui \- A portable graphical interface to Git
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit gui\fR [<command>] [arguments]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A Tcl/Tk based graphical user interface to Git. git\-gui focuses on allowing users to make changes to their repository by making new commits, amending existing ones, creating branches, performing local merges, and fetching/pushing to remote repositories.

Unlike \fBgitk\fR(1), git\-gui focuses on commit generation and single file annotation, and does not show project history. It does however supply menu actions to start a gitk session from within git\-gui.

git\-gui is known to work on all popular UNIX systems, Mac OS X, and Windows (under both Cygwin and MSYS). To the extent possible OS specific user interface guidelines are followed, making git\-gui a fairly native interface for users.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP
blame
Start a blame viewer on the specified file on the given version (or working directory if not specified).
.TP
browser
Start a tree browser showing all files in the specified commit (or \fIHEAD\fR by default). Files selected through the browser are opened in the blame viewer.
.TP
citool
Start git\-gui and arrange to make exactly one commit before exiting and returning to the shell. The interface is limited to only commit actions, slightly reducing the application's startup time and simplifying the menubar.
.TP
version
Display the currently running version of git\-gui.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
git gui blame Makefile
Show the contents of the file \fIMakefile\fR in the current working directory, and provide annotations for both the original author of each line, and who moved the line to its current location. The uncommitted file is annotated, and uncommitted changes (if any) are explicitly attributed to \fINot Yet Committed\fR.
.TP
git gui blame v0.99.8 Makefile
Show the contents of \fIMakefile\fR in revision \fIv0.99.8\fR and provide annotations for each line. Unlike the above example the file is read from the object database and not the working directory.
.TP
git gui citool
Make one commit and return to the shell when it is complete.
.TP
git citool
Same as \fIgit gui citool\fR (above).
.TP
git gui browser maint
Show a browser for the tree of the \fImaint\fR branch. Files selected in the browser can be viewed with the internal blame viewer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
\fBgitk\fR(1)
The git repository browser. Shows branches, commit history and file differences. gitk is the utility started by git\-gui's Repository Visualize actions.
.SH "OTHER"
git\-gui is actually maintained as an independent project, but stable versions are distributed as part of the Git suite for the convenience of end users.

A git\-gui development repository can be obtained from:
.sp
.nf
git clone git://repo.or.cz/git\-gui.git
.fi
or
.sp
.nf
git clone http://repo.or.cz/r/git\-gui.git
.fi
or browsed online at [1]\&\fIhttp://repo.or.cz/w/git\-gui.git/\fR.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Shawn O. Pearce <spearce@spearce.org>.
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Shawn O. Pearce <spearce@spearce.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ http://repo.or.cz/w/git\-gui.git/
\%http://repo.or.cz/w/git\-gui.git/
