.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-UPDATE\-SERVER\-IN" "1" "06/02/2007" "Git 1.5.2.167.g4bc70" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-update\-server\-info \- Update auxiliary info file to help dumb servers
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-update\-server\-info\fR [\-\-force]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A dumb server that does not do on\-the\-fly pack generations must have some auxiliary information files in $GIT_DIR/info and $GIT_OBJECT_DIRECTORY/info directories to help clients discover what references and packs the server has. This command generates such auxiliary files.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-f|\-\-force
Update the info files from scratch.
.SH "OUTPUT"
Currently the command updates the following files. Please see [1]\&\fIrepository\-layout\fR for description of what they are for:
.TP 3
\(bu
objects/info/packs
.TP
\(bu
info/refs
.SH "BUGS"
When you remove an existing ref, the command fails to update info/refs file unless \-\-force flag is given.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ repository\-layout
\%repository\-layout.html
