.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-LS\-TREE" "1" "05/23/2007" "Git 1.5.2.45.ged82" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-ls\-tree \- List the contents of a tree object
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIgit\-ls\-tree\fR [\-d] [\-r] [\-t] [\-l] [\-z]
            [\-\-name\-only] [\-\-name\-status] [\-\-full\-name] [\-\-abbrev=[<n>]]
            <tree\-ish> [paths\&...]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Lists the contents of a given tree object, like what "/bin/ls \-a" does in the current working directory. Note that the usage is subtly different, though \- \fIpaths\fR denote just a list of patterns to match, e.g. so specifying directory name (without \fI\-r\fR) will behave differently, and order of the arguments does not matter.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
<tree\-ish>
Id of a tree\-ish.
.TP
\-d
Show only the named tree entry itself, not its children.
.TP
\-r
Recurse into sub\-trees.
.TP
\-t
Show tree entries even when going to recurse them. Has no effect if \fI\-r\fR was not passed. \fI\-d\fR implies \fI\-t\fR.
.TP
\-l , \-\-long
Show object size of blob (file) entries.
.TP
\-z
\\0 line termination on output.
.TP
\-\-name\-only , \-\-name\-status
List only filenames (instead of the "long" output), one per line.
.TP
\-\-abbrev[=<n>]
Instead of showing the full 40\-byte hexadecimal object lines, show only handful hexdigits prefix. Non default number of digits can be specified with \-\-abbrev=<n>.
.TP
\-\-full\-name
Instead of showing the path names relative to the current working directory, show the full path names.
.TP
paths
When paths are given, show them (note that this isn't really raw pathnames, but rather a list of patterns to match). Otherwise implicitly uses the root level of the tree as the sole path argument.
.SH "OUTPUT FORMAT"
.sp
.nf
<mode> SP <type> SP <object> TAB <file>
.fi
When the \-z option is not used, TAB, LF, and backslash characters in pathnames are represented as \\t, \\n, and \\\\, respectively.

When the \-l option is used, format changes to
.sp
.nf
<mode> SP <type> SP <object> SP <object size> TAB <file>
.fi
Object size identified by <object> is given in bytes, and right\-justified with minimum width of 7 characters. Object size is given only for blobs (file) entries; for other entries \- character is used in place of size.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Petr Baudis <pasky@suse.cz> Completely rewritten from scratch by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>, another major rewrite by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

