.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-DESCRIBE" "1" "10/03/2006" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-describe \- Show the most recent tag that is reachable from a commit
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-describe\fR [\-\-all] [\-\-tags] [\-\-abbrev=<n>] <committish>\&...
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The command finds the most recent tag that is reachable from a commit, and if the commit itself is pointed at by the tag, shows the tag. Otherwise, it suffixes the tag name with abbreviated object name of the commit.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
<committish>
The object name of the committish.
.TP
\-\-all
Instead of using only the annotated tags, use any ref found in
.git/refs/.
.TP
\-\-tags
Instead of using only the annotated tags, use any tag found in
.git/refs/tags.
.TP
\-\-abbrev=<n>
Instead of using the default 8 hexadecimal digits as the abbreviated object name, use <n> digits.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
With something like git.git current tree, I get:
.sp
.sp
.nf
[torvalds@g5 git]$ git\-describe parent
v1.0.4\-g2414721b
.fi
i.e. the current head of my "parent" branch is based on v1.0.4, but since it has a few commits on top of that, it has added the git hash of the thing to the end: "\-g" + 8\-char shorthand for the commit 2414721b194453f058079d897d13c4e377f92dc6.
.sp
Doing a "git\-describe" on a tag\-name will just show the tag name:
.sp
.sp
.nf
[torvalds@g5 git]$ git\-describe v1.0.4
v1.0.4
.fi
With \-\-all, the command can use branch heads as references, so the output shows the reference path as well:
.sp
.sp
.nf
[torvalds@g5 git]$ git describe \-\-all \-\-abbrev=4 v1.0.5^2
tags/v1.0.0\-g975b
.fi
.sp
.nf
[torvalds@g5 git]$ git describe \-\-all HEAD^
heads/lt/describe\-g975b
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>, but somewhat butchered by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.sp
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.sp
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite
.sp
