.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-INSTAWEB" "1" "06/06/2008" "Git 1.5.6.rc1.21.g03300" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-instaweb \- Instantly browse your working repository in gitweb
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIgit\-instaweb\fR [\-\-local] [\-\-httpd=<httpd>] [\-\-port=<port>]
               [\-\-browser=<browser>]
\fIgit\-instaweb\fR [\-\-start] [\-\-stop] [\-\-restart]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A simple script to setup gitweb and a web server for browsing the local repository.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-l|\-\-local
Only bind the web server to the local IP (127.0.0.1).
.TP
\-d|\-\-httpd
The HTTP daemon command\-line that will be executed. Command\-line options may be specified here, and the configuration file will be added at the end of the command\-line. Currently lighttpd, apache2 and webrick are supported. (Default: lighttpd)
.TP
\-m|\-\-module\-path
The module path (only needed if httpd is Apache). (Default: /usr/lib/apache2/modules)
.TP
\-p|\-\-port
The port number to bind the httpd to. (Default: 1234)
.TP
\-b|\-\-browser
The web browser that should be used to view the gitweb page. This will be passed to the \fIgit\-web\-\-browse\fR helper script along with the URL of the gitweb instance. See \fBgit\-web\-\-browse\fR(1) for more information about this. If the script fails, the URL will be printed to stdout.
.TP
\-\-start
Start the httpd instance and exit. This does not generate any of the configuration files for spawning a new instance.
.TP
\-\-stop
Stop the httpd instance and exit. This does not generate any of the configuration files for spawning a new instance, nor does it close the browser.
.TP
\-\-restart
Restart the httpd instance and exit. This does not generate any of the configuration files for spawning a new instance.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
You may specify configuration in your .git/config
.sp
.nf
.ft C
[instaweb]
        local = true
        httpd = apache2 \-f
        port = 4321
        browser = konqueror
        modulepath = /usr/lib/apache2/modules
.ft

.fi
If the configuration variable \fIinstaweb.browser\fR is not set, \fIweb.browser\fR will be used instead if it is defined. See \fBgit\-web\-\-browse\fR(1) for more information about this.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Eric Wong <normalperson@yhbt.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Eric Wong <normalperson@yhbt.net>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(1) suite

