.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-APPLYMBOX" "1" "06/02/2007" "Git 1.5.2.167.g4bc70" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-applymbox \- Apply a series of patches in a mailbox
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-applymbox\fR [\-u] [\-k] [\-q] [\-m] ( \-c .dotest/<num> | <mbox> ) [ <signoff> ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Splits mail messages in a mailbox into commit log message, authorship information and patches, and applies them to the current branch.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-q
Apply patches interactively. The user will be given opportunity to edit the log message and the patch before attempting to apply it.
.TP
\-k
Usually the program \fIcleans up\fR the Subject: header line to extract the title line for the commit log message, among which (1) remove \fIRe:\fR or \fIre:\fR, (2) leading whitespaces, (3) \fI[\fR up to \fI]\fR, typically \fI[PATCH]\fR, and then prepends "[PATCH] ". This flag forbids this munging, and is most useful when used to read back \fIgit format\-patch \-k\fR output.
.TP
\-m
Patches are applied with git\-apply command, and unless it cleanly applies without fuzz, the processing fails. With this flag, if a tree that the patch applies cleanly is found in a repository, the patch is applied to the tree and then a 3\-way merge between the resulting tree and the current tree.
.TP
\-u
Pass \-u flag to git\-mailinfo (see \fBgit\-mailinfo\fR(1)). The proposed commit log message taken from the e\-mail are re\-coded into UTF\-8 encoding (configuration variable i18n.commitencoding can be used to specify project's preferred encoding if it is not UTF\-8). This used to be optional but now it is the default.

Note that the patch is always used as\-is without charset conversion, even with this flag.
.TP
\-n
Pass \-n flag to git\-mailinfo (see \fBgit\-mailinfo\fR(1)).
.TP
\-c .dotest/<num>
When the patch contained in an e\-mail does not cleanly apply, the command exits with an error message. The patch and extracted message are found in .dotest/, and you could re\-run \fIgit applymbox\fR with \fI\-c .dotest/<num>\fR flag to restart the process after inspecting and fixing them.
.TP
<mbox>
The name of the file that contains the e\-mail messages with patches. This file should be in the UNIX mailbox format. See \fISubmittingPatches\fR document to learn about the formatting convention for e\-mail submission.
.TP
<signoff>
The name of the file that contains your "Signed\-off\-by" line. See \fISubmittingPatches\fR document to learn what "Signed\-off\-by" line means. You can also just say \fIyes\fR, \fItrue\fR, \fIme\fR, or \fIplease\fR to use an automatically generated "Signed\-off\-by" line based on your committer identity.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgit\-am\fR(1), \fBgit\-applypatch\fR(1).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

