.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-DAEMON" "1" "06/08/2008" "Git 1.5.6.rc2.15.g457bb" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-daemon \- A really simple server for git repositories
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIgit\-daemon\fR [\-\-verbose] [\-\-syslog] [\-\-export\-all]
             [\-\-timeout=n] [\-\-init\-timeout=n] [\-\-strict\-paths]
             [\-\-base\-path=path] [\-\-user\-path | \-\-user\-path=path]
             [\-\-interpolated\-path=pathtemplate]
             [\-\-reuseaddr] [\-\-detach] [\-\-pid\-file=file]
             [\-\-enable=service] [\-\-disable=service]
             [\-\-allow\-override=service] [\-\-forbid\-override=service]
             [\-\-inetd | [\-\-listen=host_or_ipaddr] [\-\-port=n] [\-\-user=user [\-\-group=group]]
             [directory\&...]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A really simple TCP git daemon that normally listens on port "DEFAULT_GIT_PORT" aka 9418. It waits for a connection asking for a service, and will serve that service if it is enabled.

It verifies that the directory has the magic file "git\-daemon\-export\-ok", and it will refuse to export any git directory that hasn't explicitly been marked for export this way (unless the \fI\-\-export\-all\fR parameter is specified). If you pass some directory paths as \fIgit\-daemon\fR arguments, you can further restrict the offers to a whitelist comprising of those.

By default, only upload\-pack service is enabled, which serves git\-fetch\-pack and git\-ls\-remote clients, which are invoked from git\-fetch, git\-pull, and git\-clone.

This is ideally suited for read\-only updates, i.e., pulling from git repositories.

An upload\-archive also exists to serve git\-archive.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-strict\-paths
Match paths exactly (i.e. don't allow "/foo/repo" when the real path is "/foo/repo.git" or "/foo/repo/.git") and don't do user\-relative paths. git\-daemon will refuse to start when this option is enabled and no whitelist is specified.
.TP
\-\-base\-path
Remap all the path requests as relative to the given path. This is sort of "GIT root" \- if you run git\-daemon with \fI\-\-base\-path=/srv/git\fR on example.com, then if you later try to pull \fIgit://example.com/hello.git\fR, git\-daemon will interpret the path as \fI/srv/git/hello.git\fR.
.TP
\-\-base\-path\-relaxed
If \-\-base\-path is enabled and repo lookup fails, with this option git\-daemon will attempt to lookup without prefixing the base path. This is useful for switching to \-\-base\-path usage, while still allowing the old paths.
.TP
\-\-interpolated\-path=pathtemplate
To support virtual hosting, an interpolated path template can be used to dynamically construct alternate paths. The template supports %H for the target hostname as supplied by the client but converted to all lowercase, %CH for the canonical hostname, %IP for the server's IP address, %P for the port number, and %D for the absolute path of the named repository. After interpolation, the path is validated against the directory whitelist.
.TP
\-\-export\-all
Allow pulling from all directories that look like GIT repositories (have the \fIobjects\fR and \fIrefs\fR subdirectories), even if they do not have the \fIgit\-daemon\-export\-ok\fR file.
.TP
\-\-inetd
Have the server run as an inetd service. Implies \-\-syslog. Incompatible with \-\-port, \-\-listen, \-\-user and \-\-group options.
.TP
\-\-listen=host_or_ipaddr
Listen on an a specific IP address or hostname. IP addresses can be either an IPv4 address or an IPV6 address if supported. If IPv6 is not supported, then \-\-listen=hostname is also not supported and \-\-listen must be given an IPv4 address. Incompatible with \fI\-\-inetd\fR option.
.TP
\-\-port=n
Listen on an alternative port. Incompatible with \fI\-\-inetd\fR option.
.TP
\-\-init\-timeout
Timeout between the moment the connection is established and the client request is received (typically a rather low value, since that should be basically immediate).
.TP
\-\-timeout
Timeout for specific client sub\-requests. This includes the time it takes for the server to process the sub\-request and time spent waiting for next client's request.
.TP
\-\-syslog
Log to syslog instead of stderr. Note that this option does not imply \-\-verbose, thus by default only error conditions will be logged.
.TP
\-\-user\-path , \-\-user\-path=path
Allow ~user notation to be used in requests. When specified with no parameter, requests to git://host/~alice/foo is taken as a request to access \fIfoo\fR repository in the home directory of user alice. If \-\-user\-path=path is specified, the same request is taken as a request to access path/foo repository in the home directory of user alice.
.TP
\-\-verbose
Log details about the incoming connections and requested files.
.TP
\-\-reuseaddr
Use SO_REUSEADDR when binding the listening socket. This allows the server to restart without waiting for old connections to time out.
.TP
\-\-detach
Detach from the shell. Implies \-\-syslog.
.TP
\-\-pid\-file=file
Save the process id in \fIfile\fR. Ignored when the daemon is run under \-\-inetd.
.TP
\-\-user=user , \-\-group=group
Change daemon's uid and gid before entering the service loop. When only \-\-user is given without \-\-group, the primary group ID for the user is used. The values of the option are given to getpwnam(3) and getgrnam(3) and numeric IDs are not supported.

Giving these options is an error when used with \-\-inetd; use the facility of inet daemon to achieve the same before spawning git\-daemon if needed.
.TP
\-\-enable=service , \-\-disable=service
Enable/disable the service site\-wide per default. Note that a service disabled site\-wide can still be enabled per repository if it is marked overridable and the repository enables the service with an configuration item.
.TP
\-\-allow\-override=service , \-\-forbid\-override=service
Allow/forbid overriding the site\-wide default with per repository configuration. By default, all the services are overridable.
.TP
<directory>
A directory to add to the whitelist of allowed directories. Unless \-\-strict\-paths is specified this will also include subdirectories of each named directory.
.SH "SERVICES"
These services can be globally enabled/disabled using the command line options of this command. If a finer\-grained control is desired (e.g. to allow git\-archive to be run against only in a few selected repositories the daemon serves), the per\-repository configuration file can be used to enable or disable them.
.TP
upload\-pack
This serves git\-fetch\-pack and git\-ls\-remote clients. It is enabled by default, but a repository can disable it by setting daemon.uploadpack configuration item to false.
.TP
upload\-archive
This serves git\-archive \-\-remote. It is disabled by default, but a repository can enable it by setting daemon.uploadarch configuration item to true.
.TP
receive\-pack
This serves git\-send\-pack clients, allowing anonymous push. It is disabled by default, as there is _no_ authentication in the protocol (in other words, anybody can push anything into the repository, including removal of refs). This is solely meant for a closed LAN setting where everybody is friendly. This service can be enabled by daemon.receivepack configuration item to true.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
We assume the following in /etc/services
.sp
.nf
.ft C
$ grep 9418 /etc/services
git             9418/tcp                # Git Version Control System
.ft

.fi
.TP
git\-daemon as inetd server
To set up git\-daemon as an inetd service that handles any repository under the whitelisted set of directories, /pub/foo and /pub/bar, place an entry like the following into /etc/inetd all on one line:
.sp
.nf
.ft C
        git stream tcp nowait nobody  /usr/bin/git\-daemon
                git\-daemon \-\-inetd \-\-verbose \-\-export\-all
                /pub/foo /pub/bar
.ft

.fi
.TP
git\-daemon as inetd server for virtual hosts
To set up git\-daemon as an inetd service that handles repositories for different virtual hosts, www.example.com and www.example.org, place an entry like the following into /etc/inetd all on one line:
.sp
.nf
.ft C
        git stream tcp nowait nobody /usr/bin/git\-daemon
                git\-daemon \-\-inetd \-\-verbose \-\-export\-all
                \-\-interpolated\-path=/pub/%H%D
                /pub/www.example.org/software
                /pub/www.example.com/software
                /software
.ft

.fi
In this example, the root\-level directory /pub will contain a subdirectory for each virtual host name supported. Further, both hosts advertise repositories simply as git://www.example.com/software/repo.git. For pre\-1.4.0 clients, a symlink from /software into the appropriate default repository could be made as well.
.TP
git\-daemon as regular daemon for virtual hosts
To set up git\-daemon as a regular, non\-inetd service that handles repositories for multiple virtual hosts based on their IP addresses, start the daemon like this:
.sp
.nf
.ft C
        git\-daemon \-\-verbose \-\-export\-all
                \-\-interpolated\-path=/pub/%IP/%D
                /pub/192.168.1.200/software
                /pub/10.10.220.23/software
.ft

.fi
In this example, the root\-level directory /pub will contain a subdirectory for each virtual host IP address supported. Repositories can still be accessed by hostname though, assuming they correspond to these IP addresses.
.TP
selectively enable/disable services per repository
To enable git\-archive \-\-remote and disable git\-fetch against a repository, have the following in the configuration file in the repository (that is the file \fIconfig\fR next to \fIHEAD\fR, \fIrefs\fR and \fIobjects\fR).
.sp
.nf
.ft C
        [daemon]
                uploadpack = false
                uploadarch = true
.ft

.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>, YOSHIFUJI Hideaki <yoshfuji@linux\-ipv6.org> and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(1) suite

