.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-UNPACK\-OBJECTS" "1" "06/06/2008" "Git 1.5.6.rc1.21.g03300" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-unpack\-objects \- Unpack objects from a packed archive
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-unpack\-objects\fR [\-n] [\-q] [\-r] [\-\-strict] <pack\-file
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Read a packed archive (.pack) from the standard input, expanding the objects contained within and writing them into the repository in "loose" (one object per file) format.

Objects that already exist in the repository will \fBnot\fR be unpacked from the pack\-file. Therefore, nothing will be unpacked if you use this command on a pack\-file that exists within the target repository.

Please see the git\-repack documentation for options to generate new packs and replace existing ones.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-n
Dry run. Check the pack file without actually unpacking the objects.
.TP
\-q
The command usually shows percentage progress. This flag suppresses it.
.TP
\-r
When unpacking a corrupt packfile, the command dies at the first corruption. This flag tells it to keep going and make the best effort to recover as many objects as possible.
.TP
\-\-strict
Don't write objects with broken content or links.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(1) suite

