.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-WRITE\-TREE" "1" "04/04/2007" "Git 1.5.1.31.ge421f" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-write\-tree \- Create a tree object from the current index
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-write\-tree\fR [\-\-missing\-ok] [\-\-prefix=<prefix>/]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Creates a tree object using the current index.

The index must be in a fully merged state.

Conceptually, git\-write\-tree sync()s the current index contents into a set of tree files. In order to have that match what is actually in your directory right now, you need to have done a git\-update\-index phase before you did the git\-write\-tree.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-missing\-ok
Normally git\-write\-tree ensures that the objects referenced by the directory exist in the object database. This option disables this check.
.TP
\-\-prefix=<prefix>/
Writes a tree object that represents a subdirectory <prefix>. This can be used to write the tree object for a subproject that is in the named subdirectory.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

