.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-PACK\-REDUNDANT" "1" "01/29/2007" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-pack\-redundant \- Find redundant pack files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-pack\-redundant\fR [ \-\-verbose ] [ \-\-alt\-odb ] < \-\-all | .pack filename \&... >
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This program computes which packs in your repository are redundant. The output is suitable for piping to \fIxargs rm\fR if you are in the root of the repository.

git\-pack\-redundant accepts a list of objects on standard input. Any objects given will be ignored when checking which packs are required. This makes the following command useful when wanting to remove packs which contain unreachable objects.

git\-fsck \-\-full \-\-unreachable | cut \-d \fI \fR \-f3 | git\-pack\-redundant \-\-all | xargs rm
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-all
Processes all packs. Any filenames on the command line are ignored.
.TP
\-\-alt\-odb
Don't require objects present in packs from alternate object directories to be present in local packs.
.TP
\-\-verbose
Outputs some statistics to stderr. Has a small performance penalty.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Lukas Sandström <lukass@etek.chalmers.se>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Lukas Sandström <lukass@etek.chalmers.se>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgit\-pack\-objects\fR(1) \fBgit\-repack\fR(1) \fBgit\-prune\-packed\fR(1)
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

