.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-FMT\-MERGE\-MSG" "1" "05/09/2008" "Git 1.5.5.1.178.g1f81" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-fmt\-merge\-msg \- Produce a merge commit message
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
git\-fmt\-merge\-msg [\-\-log | \-\-no\-log] <$GIT_DIR/FETCH_HEAD
git\-fmt\-merge\-msg [\-\-log | \-\-no\-log] \-F <file>
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Takes the list of merged objects on stdin and produces a suitable commit message to be used for the merge commit, usually to be passed as the \fI<merge\-message>\fR argument of git\-merge.

This script is intended mostly for internal use by scripts automatically invoking git\-merge.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-log
In addition to branch names, populate the log message with one\-line descriptions from the actual commits that are being merged.
.TP
\-\-no\-log
Do not list one\-line descriptions from the actual commits being merged.
.TP
\-\-summary,\-\-no\-summary
Synonyms to \-\-log and \-\-no\-log; these are deprecated and will be removed in the future.
.TP
\-\-file <file>, \-F <file>
Take the list of merged objects from <file> instead of stdin.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.TP
merge.log
Whether to include summaries of merged commits in newly merge commit messages. False by default.
.TP
merge.summary
Synonym to merge.log; this is deprecated and will be removed in the future.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgit\-merge\fR(1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Petr Baudis, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

