.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-RUNSTATUS" "1" "06/16/2007" "Git 1.5.2.2.236.g952c8" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-runstatus \- A helper for git\-status and git\-commit
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-runstatus\fR [\-\-color|\-\-nocolor] [\-\-amend] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-untracked]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Examines paths in the working tree that has changes unrecorded to the index file, and changes between the index file and the current HEAD commit. The former paths are what you _could_ commit by running \fIgit add\fR (or \fIgit rm\fR if you are deleting) before running \fIgit commit\fR, and the latter paths are what you _would_ commit by running \fIgit commit\fR.

If there is no path that is different between the index file and the current HEAD commit, the command exits with non\-zero status.

Note that this is _not_ the user level command you would want to run from the command line. Use \fIgit\-status\fR instead.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-color
Show colored status, highlighting modified file names.
.TP
\-\-nocolor
Turn off coloring.
.TP
\-\-amend
Show status based on HEAD^1, not HEAD, i.e. show what \fIgit\-commit \-\-amend\fR would do.
.TP
\-\-verbose
Show unified diff of all file changes.
.TP
\-\-untracked
Show files in untracked directories, too. Without this option only its name and a trailing slash are displayed for each untracked directory.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The output from this command is designed to be used as a commit template comments, and all the output lines are prefixed with \fI#\fR.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Originally written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org> as part of git\-commit, and later rewritten in C by Jeff King.
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

