.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-STATUS" "1" "04/21/2008" "Git 1.5.5.1.57.g5909c" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-status \- Show the working tree status
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-status\fR <options>\&...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Displays paths that have differences between the index file and the current HEAD commit, paths that have differences between the working tree and the index file, and paths in the working tree that are not tracked by git (and are not ignored by \fBgitignore\fR(5)). The first are what you _would_ commit by running git commit; the second and third are what you _could_ commit by running git add before running git commit.

The command takes the same set of options as git\-commit; it shows what would be committed if the same options are given to git\-commit.

If there is no path that is different between the index file and the current HEAD commit (i.e., there is nothing to commit by running git\-commit), the command exits with non\-zero status.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The output from this command is designed to be used as a commit template comment, and all the output lines are prefixed with \fI#\fR.

The paths mentioned in the output, unlike many other git commands, are made relative to the current directory if you are working in a subdirectory (this is on purpose, to help cutting and pasting). See the status.relativePaths config option below.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The command honors color.status (or status.color \(em they mean the same thing and the latter is kept for backward compatibility) and color.status.<slot> configuration variables to colorize its output.

If the config variable status.relativePaths is set to false, then all paths shown are relative to the repository root, not to the current directory.

If status.submodulesummary is set to a non zero number or true (identical to \-1 or an unlimited number), the submodule summary will be enabled and a summary of commits for modified submodules will be shown (see \-\-summary\-limit option of \fBgit\-submodule\fR(1)).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgitignore\fR(5)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org> and Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>.
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

