.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-SUBMODULE" "1" "06/16/2007" "Git 1.5.2.2.236.g952c8" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-submodule \- Initialize, update or inspect submodules
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-submodule\fR [\-\-quiet] [\-\-cached] [status|init|update] [\-\-] [<path>\&...]
.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP
status
Show the status of the submodules. This will print the SHA\-1 of the currently checked out commit for each submodule, along with the submodule path and the output of \fBgit\-describe\fR(1) for the SHA\-1. Each SHA\-1 will be prefixed with \- if the submodule is not initialized and + if the currently checked out submodule commit does not match the SHA\-1 found in the index of the containing repository. This command is the default command for git\-submodule.
.TP
init
Initialize the submodules, i.e. register in .git/config each submodule path and url found in .gitmodules. The key used in git/config is submodule.$path.url. This command does not alter existing information in .git/config.
.TP
update
Update the registered submodules, i.e. clone missing submodules and checkout the commit specified in the index of the containing repository. This will make the submodules HEAD be detached.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-q, \-\-quiet
Only print error messages.
.TP
\-\-cached
Display the SHA\-1 stored in the index, not the SHA\-1 of the currently checked out submodule commit. This option is only valid for the status command.
.TP
<path>
Path to submodule(s). When specified this will restrict the command to only operate on the submodules found at the specified paths.
.SH "FILES"
When initializing submodules, a .gitmodules file in the top\-level directory of the containing repository is used to find the url of each submodule. This file should be formatted in the same way as $GIR_DIR/config. The key to each submodule url is "module.$path.url".
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Lars Hjemli <hjemli@gmail.com>
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

