.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-CHERRY\-PICK" "1" "12/13/2007" "Git 1.5.4.rc0" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-cherry\-pick \- Apply the change introduced by an existing commit
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-cherry\-pick\fR [\-\-edit] [\-n] [\-m parent\-number] [\-x] <commit>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Given one existing commit, apply the change the patch introduces, and record a new commit that records it. This requires your working tree to be clean (no modifications from the HEAD commit).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
<commit>
Commit to cherry\-pick. For a more complete list of ways to spell commits, see "SPECIFYING REVISIONS" section in \fBgit\-rev\-parse\fR(1).
.TP
\-e|\-\-edit
With this option, git\-cherry\-pick will let you edit the commit message prior committing.
.TP
\-x
When recording the commit, append to the original commit message a note that indicates which commit this change was cherry\-picked from. Append the note only for cherry picks without conflicts. Do not use this option if you are cherry\-picking from your private branch because the information is useless to the recipient. If on the other hand you are cherry\-picking between two publicly visible branches (e.g. backporting a fix to a maintenance branch for an older release from a development branch), adding this information can be useful.
.TP
\-r
It used to be that the command defaulted to do \-x described above, and \-r was to disable it. Now the default is not to do \-x so this option is a no\-op.
.TP
\-m parent\-number|\-\-mainline parent\-number
Usually you cannot revert a merge because you do not know which side of the merge should be considered the mainline. This option specifies the parent number (starting from 1) of the mainline and allows cherry\-pick to replay the change relative to the specified parent.
.TP
\-n|\-\-no\-commit
Usually the command automatically creates a commit with a commit log message stating which commit was cherry\-picked. This flag applies the change necessary to cherry\-pick the named commit to your working tree, but does not make the commit. In addition, when this option is used, your working tree does not have to match the HEAD commit. The cherry\-pick is done against the beginning state of your working tree.

This is useful when cherry\-picking more than one commits' effect to your working tree in a row.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

