.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-SEND\-EMAIL" "1" "06/06/2008" "Git 1.5.6.rc1.21.g03300" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-send\-email \- Send a collection of patches as emails
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-send\-email\fR [options] <file|directory> [\&... file|directory]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Takes the patches given on the command line and emails them out.

The header of the email is configurable by command line options. If not specified on the command line, the user will be prompted with a ReadLine enabled interface to provide the necessary information.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The options available are:
.TP
\-\-bcc
Specify a "Bcc:" value for each email.

The \-\-bcc option must be repeated for each user you want on the bcc list.
.TP
\-\-cc
Specify a starting "Cc:" value for each email.

The \-\-cc option must be repeated for each user you want on the cc list.
.TP
\-\-cc\-cmd
Specify a command to execute once per patch file which should generate patch file specific "Cc:" entries. Output of this command must be single email address per line. Default is the value of \fIsendemail.cccmd\fR configuration value.
.TP
\-\-chain\-reply\-to, \-\-no\-chain\-reply\-to
If this is set, each email will be sent as a reply to the previous email sent. If disabled with "\-\-no\-chain\-reply\-to", all emails after the first will be sent as replies to the first email sent. When using this, it is recommended that the first file given be an overview of the entire patch series. Default is the value of the \fIsendemail.chainreplyto\fR configuration value; if that is unspecified, default to \-\-chain\-reply\-to.
.TP
\-\-compose
Use $GIT_EDITOR, core.editor, $VISUAL, or $EDITOR to edit an introductory message for the patch series.
.TP
\-\-from
Specify the sender of the emails. This will default to the value GIT_COMMITTER_IDENT, as returned by "git\-var \-l". The user will still be prompted to confirm this entry.
.TP
\-\-in\-reply\-to
Specify the contents of the first In\-Reply\-To header. Subsequent emails will refer to the previous email instead of this if \-\-chain\-reply\-to is set (the default) Only necessary if \-\-compose is also set. If \-\-compose is not set, this will be prompted for.
.TP
\-\-signed\-off\-by\-cc, \-\-no\-signed\-off\-by\-cc
If this is set, add emails found in Signed\-off\-by: or Cc: lines to the cc list. Default is the value of \fIsendemail.signedoffcc\fR configuration value; if that is unspecified, default to \-\-signed\-off\-by\-cc.
.TP
\-\-quiet
Make git\-send\-email less verbose. One line per email should be all that is output.
.TP
\-\-identity
A configuration identity. When given, causes values in the \fIsendemail.<identity>\fR subsection to take precedence over values in the \fIsendemail\fR section. The default identity is the value of \fIsendemail.identity\fR.
.TP
\-\-smtp\-server
If set, specifies the outgoing SMTP server to use (e.g. smtp.example.com or a raw IP address). Alternatively it can specify a full pathname of a sendmail\-like program instead; the program must support the \-i option. Default value can be specified by the \fIsendemail.smtpserver\fR configuration option; the built\-in default is /usr/sbin/sendmail or /usr/lib/sendmail if such program is available, or localhost otherwise.
.TP
\-\-smtp\-server\-port
Specifies a port different from the default port (SMTP servers typically listen to smtp port 25 and ssmtp port 465).
.TP
\-\-smtp\-user
Username for SMTP\-AUTH. In place of this option, the following configuration variables can be specified:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
sendemail.smtpuser
.TP
\(bu
sendemail.<identity>.smtpuser (see sendemail.identity).
.RE
.IP
However, \-\-smtp\-user always overrides these variables.

If a username is not specified (with \-\-smtp\-user or a configuration variable), then authentication is not attempted.
.TP
\-\-smtp\-pass
Password for SMTP\-AUTH. The argument is optional: If no argument is specified, then the empty string is used as the password.

In place of this option, the following configuration variables can be specified:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
sendemail.smtppass
.TP
\(bu
sendemail.<identity>.smtppass (see sendemail.identity).
.RE
.IP
However, \-\-smtp\-pass always overrides these variables.

Furthermore, passwords need not be specified in configuration files or on the command line. If a username has been specified (with \-\-smtp\-user or a configuration variable), but no password has been specified (with \-\-smtp\-pass or a configuration variable), then the user is prompted for a password while the input is masked for privacy.
.TP
\-\-smtp\-ssl
If set, connects to the SMTP server using SSL. Default is the value of the \fIsendemail.smtpssl\fR configuration value; if that is unspecified, does not use SSL.
.TP
\-\-subject
Specify the initial subject of the email thread. Only necessary if \-\-compose is also set. If \-\-compose is not set, this will be prompted for.
.TP
\-\-suppress\-from, \-\-no\-suppress\-from
If this is set, do not add the From: address to the cc: list. Default is the value of \fIsendemail.suppressfrom\fR configuration value; if that is unspecified, default to \-\-no\-suppress\-from.
.TP
\-\-suppress\-cc
Specify an additional category of recipients to suppress the auto\-cc of. \fIself\fR will avoid including the sender, \fIauthor\fR will avoid including the patch author, \fIcc\fR will avoid including anyone mentioned in Cc lines in the patch, \fIsob\fR will avoid including anyone mentioned in Signed\-off\-by lines, and \fIcccmd\fR will avoid running the \-\-cc\-cmd. \fIall\fR will suppress all auto cc values. Default is the value of \fIsendemail.suppresscc\fR configuration value; if that is unspecified, default to \fIself\fR if \-\-suppress\-from is specified, as well as \fIsob\fR if \-\-no\-signed\-off\-cc is specified.
.TP
\-\-thread, \-\-no\-thread
If this is set, the In\-Reply\-To header will be set on each email sent. If disabled with "\-\-no\-thread", no emails will have the In\-Reply\-To header set. Default is the value of the \fIsendemail.thread\fR configuration value; if that is unspecified, default to \-\-thread.
.TP
\-\-dry\-run
Do everything except actually send the emails.
.TP
\-\-envelope\-sender
Specify the envelope sender used to send the emails. This is useful if your default address is not the address that is subscribed to a list. If you use the sendmail binary, you must have suitable privileges for the \-f parameter.
.TP
\-\-to
Specify the primary recipient of the emails generated. Generally, this will be the upstream maintainer of the project involved. Default is the value of the \fIsendemail.to\fR configuration value; if that is unspecified, this will be prompted for.

The \-\-to option must be repeated for each user you want on the to list.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.TP
sendemail.identity
The default configuration identity. When specified, \fIsendemail.<identity>.<item>\fR will have higher precedence than \fIsendemail.<item>\fR. This is useful to declare multiple SMTP identities and to hoist sensitive authentication information out of the repository and into the global configuration file.
.TP
sendemail.aliasesfile
To avoid typing long email addresses, point this to one or more email aliases files. You must also supply \fIsendemail.aliasfiletype\fR.
.TP
sendemail.aliasfiletype
Format of the file(s) specified in sendemail.aliasesfile. Must be one of \fImutt\fR, \fImailrc\fR, \fIpine\fR, or \fIgnus\fR.
.TP
sendemail.to
Email address (or alias) to always send to.
.TP
sendemail.cccmd
Command to execute to generate per patch file specific "Cc:"s.
.TP
sendemail.bcc
Email address (or alias) to always bcc.
.TP
sendemail.chainreplyto
Boolean value specifying the default to the \fI\-\-chain_reply_to\fR parameter.
.TP
sendemail.smtpserver
Default SMTP server to use.
.TP
sendemail.smtpserverport
Default SMTP server port to use.
.TP
sendemail.smtpuser
Default SMTP\-AUTH username.
.TP
sendemail.smtppass
Default SMTP\-AUTH password.
.TP
sendemail.smtpssl
Boolean value specifying the default to the \fI\-\-smtp\-ssl\fR parameter.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Ryan Anderson <ryan@michonline.com>

git\-send\-email is originally based upon send_lots_of_email.pl by Greg Kroah\-Hartman.
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Ryan Anderson
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(1) suite

