.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-MAILINFO" "1" "01/10/2007" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-mailinfo \- Extracts patch from a single e\-mail message
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-mailinfo\fR [\-k] [\-u | \-\-encoding=<encoding>] <msg> <patch>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Reading a single e\-mail message from the standard input, and writes the commit log message in <msg> file, and the patches in <patch> file. The author name, e\-mail and e\-mail subject are written out to the standard output to be used by git\-applypatch to create a commit. It is usually not necessary to use this command directly.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-k
Usually the program \fIcleans up\fR the Subject: header line to extract the title line for the commit log message, among which (1) remove \fIRe:\fR or \fIre:\fR, (2) leading whitespaces, (3) \fI[\fR up to \fI]\fR, typically \fI[PATCH]\fR, and then prepends "[PATCH] ". This flag forbids this munging, and is most useful when used to read back \fIgit format\-patch \-\-mbox\fR output.
.TP
\-u
The commit log message, author name and author email are taken from the e\-mail, and after minimally decoding MIME transfer encoding, re\-coded in UTF\-8 by transliterating them. This used to be optional but now it is the default.

Note that the patch is always used as\-is without charset conversion, even with this flag.
.TP
\-\-encoding=<encoding>
Similar to \-u but if the local convention is different from what is specified by i18n.commitencoding, this flag can be used to override it.
.TP
<msg>
The commit log message extracted from e\-mail, usually except the title line which comes from e\-mail Subject.
.TP
<patch>
The patch extracted from e\-mail.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org> and Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

