.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-LOCAL\-FETCH" "1" "06/02/2007" "Git 1.5.2.167.g4bc70" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-local\-fetch \- Duplicate another git repository on a local system
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIgit\-local\-fetch\fR [\-c] [\-t] [\-a] [\-d] [\-v] [\-w filename] [\-\-recover] [\-l] [\-s] [\-n]
                  commit\-id path
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Duplicates another git repository on a local system.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-c
Get the commit objects.
.TP
\-t
Get trees associated with the commit objects.
.TP
\-a
Get all the objects.
.TP
\-v
Report what is downloaded.
.TP
\-s
Instead of regular file\-to\-file copying use symbolic links to the objects in the remote repository.
.TP
\-l
Before attempting symlinks (if \-s is specified) or file\-to\-file copying the remote objects, try to hardlink the remote objects into the local repository.
.TP
\-n
Never attempt to file\-to\-file copy remote objects. Only useful with \-s or \-l command\-line options.
.TP
\-w <filename>
Writes the commit\-id into the filename under $GIT_DIR/refs/<filename> on the local end after the transfer is complete.
.TP
\-\-stdin
Instead of a commit id on the commandline (which is not expected in this case), \fIgit\-local\-fetch\fR expects lines on stdin in the format
.sp
.nf
<commit\-id>['\\t'<filename\-as\-in\-\-w>]
.fi
.TP
\-\-recover
Verify that everything reachable from target is fetched. Used after an earlier fetch is interrupted.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

