.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-ARCHIVE" "1" "04/20/2007" "Git 1.5.1.1.190.g74474" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-archive \- Creates an archive of files from a named tree
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-archive\fR \-\-format=<fmt> [\-\-list] [\-\-prefix=<prefix>/] [<extra>] [\-\-remote=<repo>] <tree\-ish> [path\&...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Creates an archive of the specified format containing the tree structure for the named tree. If <prefix> is specified it is prepended to the filenames in the archive.

\fIgit\-archive\fR behaves differently when given a tree ID versus when given a commit ID or tag ID. In the first case the current time is used as modification time of each file in the archive. In the latter case the commit time as recorded in the referenced commit object is used instead. Additionally the commit ID is stored in a global extended pax header if the tar format is used; it can be extracted using \fIgit\-get\-tar\-commit\-id\fR. In ZIP files it is stored as a file comment.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-\-format=<fmt>
Format of the resulting archive: \fItar\fR, \fIzip\fR\&... The default is \fItar\fR.
.TP
\-\-list, \-l
Show all available formats.
.TP
\-\-verbose, \-v
Report progress to stderr.
.TP
\-\-prefix=<prefix>/
Prepend <prefix>/ to each filename in the archive.
.TP
<extra>
This can be any options that the archiver backend understand. See next section.
.TP
\-\-remote=<repo>
Instead of making a tar archive from local repository, retrieve a tar archive from a remote repository.
.TP
<tree\-ish>
The tree or commit to produce an archive for.
.TP
path
If one or more paths are specified, include only these in the archive, otherwise include all files and subdirectories.
.SH "BACKEND EXTRA OPTIONS"
.SS "zip"
.TP
\-0
Store the files instead of deflating them.
.TP
\-9
Highest and slowest compression level. You can specify any number from 1 to 9 to adjust compression speed and ratio.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
By default, file and directories modes are set to 0666 or 0777 in tar archives. It is possible to change this by setting the "umask" variable in the repository configuration as follows :
.sp
.nf
umask = 002     ;# group friendly
.fi
The special umask value "user" indicates that the user's current umask will be used instead. The default value remains 0, which means world readable/writable files and directories.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
git archive \-\-format=tar \-\-prefix=junk/ HEAD | (cd /var/tmp/ && tar xf \-)
Create a tar archive that contains the contents of the latest commit on the current branch, and extracts it in /var/tmp/junk directory.
.TP
git archive \-\-format=tar \-\-prefix=git\-1.4.0/ v1.4.0 | gzip >git\-1.4.0.tar.gz
Create a compressed tarball for v1.4.0 release.
.TP
git archive \-\-format=tar \-\-prefix=git\-1.4.0/ v1.4.0^{tree} | gzip >git\-1.4.0.tar.gz
Create a compressed tarball for v1.4.0 release, but without a global extended pax header.
.TP
git archive \-\-format=zip \-\-prefix=git\-docs/ HEAD:Documentation/ > git\-1.4.0\-docs.zip
Put everything in the current head's Documentation/ directory into \fIgit\-1.4.0\-docs.zip\fR, with the prefix \fIgit\-docs/\fR.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Franck Bui\-Huu and Rene Scharfe.
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by David Greaves, Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

