.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-CHECK\-REF\-FORMAT" "1" "11/14/2007" "Git 1.5.3.5.666.gfb5f" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-check\-ref\-format \- Make sure ref name is well formed
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-check\-ref\-format\fR <refname>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Checks if a given \fIrefname\fR is acceptable, and exits non\-zero if it is not.

A reference is used in git to specify branches and tags. A branch head is stored under $GIT_DIR/refs/heads directory, and a tag is stored under $GIT_DIR/refs/tags directory. git imposes the following rules on how refs are named:
.TP 3
1.
It can include slash / for hierarchical (directory) grouping, but no slash\-separated component can begin with a dot .;
.TP
2.
It cannot have two consecutive dots .. anywhere;
.TP
3.
It cannot have ASCII control character (i.e. bytes whose values are lower than \\040, or \\177 DEL), space, tilde ~, caret ^, colon :, question\-mark ?, asterisk *, or open bracket [ anywhere;
.TP
4.
It cannot end with a slash /.

These rules makes it easy for shell script based tools to parse refnames, pathname expansion by the shell when a refname is used unquoted (by mistake), and also avoids ambiguities in certain refname expressions (see \fBgit\-rev\-parse\fR(1)). Namely:
.TP 3
1.
double\-dot .. are often used as in ref1..ref2, and in some context this notation means ^ref1 ref2 (i.e. not in ref1 and in ref2).
.TP
2.
tilde ~ and caret ^ are used to introduce postfix \fInth parent\fR and \fIpeel onion\fR operation.
.TP
3.
colon : is used as in srcref:dstref to mean "use srcref's value and store it in dstref" in fetch and push operations. It may also be used to select a specific object such as with \fBgit\-cat\-file\fR(1) "git\-cat\-file blob v1.3.3:refs.c".
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

