.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-CHERRY" "1" "06/08/2007" "Git 1.5.2.1.144.gabc40" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-cherry \- Find commits not merged upstream
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-cherry\fR [\-v] <upstream> [<head>] [<limit>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The changeset (or "diff") of each commit between the fork\-point and <head> is compared against each commit between the fork\-point and <upstream>.

Every commit that doesn't exist in the <upstream> branch has its id (sha1) reported, prefixed by a symbol. The ones that have equivalent change already in the <upstream> branch are prefixed with a minus (\-) sign, and those that only exist in the <head> branch are prefixed with a plus (+) symbol:
.sp
.nf
           __*__*__*__*__> <upstream>
          /
fork\-point
          \\__+__+__\-__+__+__\-__+__> <head>
.fi
If a <limit> has been given then the commits along the <head> branch up to and including <limit> are not reported:
.sp
.nf
           __*__*__*__*__> <upstream>
          /
fork\-point
          \\__*__*__<limit>__\-__+__> <head>
.fi
Because git\-cherry compares the changeset rather than the commit id (sha1), you can use git\-cherry to find out if a commit you made locally has been applied <upstream> under a different commit id. For example, this will happen if you're feeding patches <upstream> via email rather than pushing or pulling commits directly.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-v
Verbose.
.TP
<upstream>
Upstream branch to compare against.
.TP
<head>
Working branch; defaults to HEAD.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

