.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GIT\-LOST\-FOUND" "1" "06/08/2007" "Git 1.5.2.1.144.gabc40" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
git\-lost\-found \- Recover lost refs that luckily have not yet been pruned
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgit\-lost\-found\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Finds dangling commits and tags from the object database, and creates refs to them in the .git/lost\-found/ directory. Commits and tags that dereference to commits are stored in .git/lost\-found/commit, and other objects are stored in .git/lost\-found/other.
.SH "OUTPUT"
Prints to standard output the object names and one\-line descriptions of any commits or tags found.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
Suppose you run \fIgit tag \-f\fR and mistype the tag to overwrite. The ref to your tag is overwritten, but until you run \fIgit prune\fR, the tag itself is still there.
.sp
.nf
$ git lost\-found
[1ef2b196d909eed523d4f3c9bf54b78cdd6843c6] GIT 0.99.9c
...
.fi
Also you can use gitk to browse how any tags found relate to each other.
.sp
.nf
$ gitk $(cd .git/lost\-found/commit && echo ??*)
.fi
After making sure you know which the object is the tag you are looking for, you can reconnect it to your regular .git/refs hierarchy.
.sp
.nf
$ git cat\-file \-t 1ef2b196
tag
$ git cat\-file tag 1ef2b196
object fa41bbce8e38c67a218415de6cfa510c7e50032a
type commit
tag v0.99.9c
tagger Junio C Hamano <junkio@cox.net> 1131059594 \-0800

GIT 0.99.9c

This contains the following changes from the "master" branch, since
...
$ git update\-ref refs/tags/not\-lost\-anymore 1ef2b196
$ git rev\-parse not\-lost\-anymore
1ef2b196d909eed523d4f3c9bf54b78cdd6843c6
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Junio C Hamano 濱野 純 <junkio@cox.net>
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

