.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GITK" "1" "10/23/2007" "Git 1.5.3.4.319.gdd817" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
gitk \- The git repository browser
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIgitk\fR [<option>\&...] [<revs>] [\-\-] [<path>\&...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Displays changes in a repository or a selected set of commits. This includes visualizing the commit graph, showing information related to each commit, and the files in the trees of each revision.

Historically, gitk was the first repository browser. It's written in tcl/tk and started off in a separate repository but was later merged into the main git repository.
.SH "OPTIONS"
To control which revisions to shown, the command takes options applicable to the \fBgit\-rev\-list\fR(1) command. This manual page describes only the most frequently used options.
.TP
\-n <number>, \-\-max\-count=<number>
Limits the number of commits to show.
.TP
\-\-since=<date>
Show commits more recent than a specific date.
.TP
\-\-until=<date>
Show commits older than a specific date.
.TP
\-\-all
Show all branches.
.TP
<revs>
Limit the revisions to show. This can be either a single revision meaning show from the given revision and back, or it can be a range in the form "\fI<from>\fR..\fI<to>\fR" to show all revisions between \fI<from>\fR and back to \fI<to>\fR. Note, more advanced revision selection can be applied. For a more complete list of ways to spell object names, see "SPECIFYING REVISIONS" section in \fBgit\-rev\-parse\fR(1).
.TP
<path>
Limit commits to the ones touching files in the given paths. Note, to avoid ambiguity wrt. revision names use "\-\-" to separate the paths from any preceding options.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
gitk v2.6.12.. include/scsi drivers/scsi
Show as the changes since version \fIv2.6.12\fR that changed any file in the include/scsi or drivers/scsi subdirectories
.TP
gitk \-\-since="2 weeks ago" \-\- gitk
Show the changes during the last two weeks to the file \fIgitk\fR. The "\-\-" is necessary to avoid confusion with the \fBbranch\fR named \fIgitk\fR
.TP
gitk \-\-max\-count=100 \-\-all \-\- Makefile
Show at most 100 changes made to the file \fIMakefile\fR. Instead of only looking for changes in the current branch look in all branches.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
\fIqgit(1)\fR
A repository browser written in C++ using Qt.
.TP
\fIgitview(1)\fR
A repository browser written in Python using Gtk. It's based on \fIbzrk(1)\fR and distributed in the contrib area of the git repository.
.TP
\fItig(1)\fR
A minimal repository browser and git tool output highlighter written in C using Ncurses.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Paul Mackerras <paulus@samba.org>.
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Junio C Hamano, Jonas Fonseca, and the git\-list <git@vger.kernel.org>.
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

