.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GITMODULES" "5" "12/13/2007" "Git 1.5.4.rc0" "Git Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
gitmodules \- defining submodule properties
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
gitmodules
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The .gitmodules file, located in the top\-level directory of a git working tree, is a text file with a syntax matching the requirements of \fBgit\-config\fR(1).

The file contains one subsection per submodule, and the subsection value is the name of the submodule. Each submodule section also contains the following required keys:
.TP
submodule.<name>.path
Defines the path, relative to the top\-level directory of the git working tree, where the submodule is expected to be checked out. The path name must not end with a /. All submodule paths must be unique within the .gitmodules file.
.TP
submodule.<name>.url
Defines an url from where the submodule repository can be cloned.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Consider the following .gitmodules file:
.sp
.nf
[submodule "libfoo"]
        path = include/foo
        url = git://foo.com/git/lib.git
.fi
.sp
.nf
[submodule "libbar"]
        path = include/bar
        url = git://bar.com/git/lib.git
.fi
This defines two submodules, libfoo and libbar. These are expected to be checked out in the paths \fIinclude/foo\fR and \fIinclude/bar\fR, and for both submodules an url is specified which can be used for cloning the submodules.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgit\-submodule\fR(1) \fBgit\-config\fR(1)
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
Documentation by Lars Hjemli <hjemli@gmail.com>
.SH "GIT"
Part of the \fBgit\fR(7) suite

